---
layout: default
title:  "My experience at Startup Weekend : Artificial Intelligence (+tips)"
author: "Charles Loumeau"
author_url: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/fit/c/120/120/0*IH9rNUN8C47RPeUY.jpg"
date:   2017-09-11
categories: [jekyll', 'markdown']
description: "How do I create this blog with Jekyll. Including functionalities like disqus comments and google analytics"
medium_url: "https://medium.com/global-swai/i-am-a-student-what-do-i-need-to-learn-for-ai-591710e99504"
image: "post2.png"

---

I’ve always had a big interest for tech community and their amazing events. One year ago, during October 2016, one of my best buddies and previous co-founders (we worked on a food app in Paris) sent me a message about those events called Startup Weekend for which he was an official organizer.

What he told me grabbed my curiosity:

    Hey man, I organized a Startup Weekend event a few months ago during the summer. It was awesome: 54 hours challenge, teams of developers, marketers, designers, entrepreneurs all teaming together in groups to work out their most innovative idea & product.

    I know there is one happening in a few weeks. First one to actually be about Artificial Intelligence. You should check it out.

I replied :

    So it’s like a hackathon right? But there are also non-tech people like business people, marketers & designers?

He told me :

    Yep, it’s something good for also business students like you and me. You get to pitch your startup project with your team in front of the jury on final day. Best pitch with idea, product demo & business model wins. You get solid recognition from big institutions like INRIA, Microsoft, etc. and really nice prizes so that you can launch your startup afterwards.

Challenges? I love them. And this one seemed to be pretty unique from all other hackathons I heard of before.

Even though the theme was about Artificial Intelligence (AI) and I had absolutely no knowledge in this field, I thought “why not give it a try?”.

So I ate, for a few days before the event started, books about AI, videos of best AI conferences, speakers, etc to at least learn a bit about this revolutionnary tech field coming up.
